In my career I have found that a massive help to enhancing productivity is finding good tools that help alleviate
the complexity of building products and features. In that regard I would like to share some of the tools that I use
both personally and professionally.

At home I use a Windows machine and at work I use a Macbook Pro M2. Regardless of the OS, there are tools that can
help ease the burden of a developer's day to day tasks. Here are some of the tools that I use:

## Windows Tools

- WSL2: if you are developing on windows and not using WSL2, you are missing out. It is a game changer for windows.
  It helps you run a full linux kernel on your windows machine. You can seamlessly work in a linux environment,
  incorporate Docker containers, and run linux commands. It is a must have for any developer working on windows.
- Windows Terminal: This is a new terminal that Microsoft has released. It is a great terminal that allows you to
  have multiple tabs, and multiple panes in each tab. It is a great tool for managing multiple terminal windows.
- Laragon: Laragon stops you having to deal with the complexities of setting up a local development environment.
  It helps you focus on building the apps you use and also helps you not pollute your system with multiple 
  installations of node or php. It allows you to easily switch between versions of PHP and Node. It also has a nice 
  pretty urls which are autogenerated for you. It is a free tool that helps deal with the complexities of setting up 
  projects and allows you to get straight to building your application. It appears that the developer may not be 
  able to continue development on the project, but it is still a great tool.

## Mac Tools
- Warp: Warp is an excellent and performant terminal for Mac that allows me a lot of convenience and functionality. 
  It makes working with the terminal a breeze. Lots of customisation options and a great UI, with modern editor 
  utility to help speed up your workflow. I highly recommend teh warp docker plugin if you are also working with 
  Docker containers.
- Rectangle: Rectangle is a window manager for Mac that allows you to easily move and resize windows. Coming from 
  Windows I found teh window management in Mac somewhat lacking, although this is likely due to my unfamiliarity 
  with it. Rectangle has made it much easier to manage windows on my Mac, especially with multiple monitors.
- Alfred: Alfred is is Mac's spotlight search on steroids. It is a great tool that allows you to quickly search for
  files, applications, and even run scripts. It has a lot of functionality that can be added through plugins.
- Herd: Herd is for Mac what Laragon was for Windows. It does have all the features that Laragon had, but some of 
  them are only available in the premium version. I would highly recommend it if you can justify the cost though. 
  The free version still makes setting up local dev environments a breeze, but you may need to handle databases and 
  a few other things until you can upgrade.
- DBngin: DBngin is an all in one database management tool. It allows you to easily manage your databases and 
  switch between different versions of MySQL, Postgres, and Redis. If you don't want to setup and organise Docker 
  containers this will allow you to handle the databases you need for your projects.

## Universal Tools
- JetBrains Suite: I use the JetBrains suite of IDE's for my development. I use PHPStorm for PHP development and
  WebStorm for Javascript development. They are a feature heavy group of specialised IDEs that have a lot of utility
  out of the box.
    - PHPStorm: PHPStorm is a great IDE for PHP development. It has a lot of features that make developing in PHP a
      breeze. It has great support for Laravel and Symfony. It is a paid IDE but it is worth the money if you are doing
      a lot of PHP development. If you are developing in Laravel, I also strongly recommend paying for the Laravel IDEA
      plugin. It is a great plugin that adds a lot of Laravel specific features to PHPStorm.
    - WebStorm: WebStorm is for JS devs what PHPStorm is for PHP devs. It is a paid IDE but it is worth the money if you
      are doing a lot of Javascript development.
    - WriterSide: Writerside is a handy markdown editor that I use for writing markdown files. I use this mainly to
      define functional requirements, flesh out specs, and write documentation. I also use it for personal notes on
      systems and processes that I work with.
- VS Code: VSCode is great if you can't justify the licensing for the Jetbrains IDE's. I used this extensively until
    I was fortunate enough to work for a company that pays for the Jetbrains Suite. There are huge amounts of plugins
    available so you can customise your editor to your workflow.
- Docker: Docker is pretty much a standard in the industry, even if you aren't in a DevOps role you should
  definitely learn the basics.
- Postman: Postman is a great tool for testing API's. It allows you to easily test your API's and see the responses
  in a nice format.
- Git: Git is a must have for any developer. It is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your
  codebase. Some of us remember the bad old days before good version control. I would strongly recommend any
  developer learn the more advanced functionalities git can provide. It is absolutely necessary in any team based
  development.
- zsh: zsh is my shell of choice and the obligatory inclusion of oh-my-zsh. It is a great shell that has a lot of
  functionality out of the box. I have customised my zsh shell to include a lot of plugins that help me with my
  day to day tasks. Frequent complex tasks can be built into shell functions and called from the command line. For 
  an example, I have a shell function that will easily allow you to select a running docker container, backup the 
  database and save to a file. This means i can quickly do this before manipulating the database whilst working on a 
  feature. I have a companion command that will restore the database from the file. This is a huge time saver for me. 